Hey guys welcome back.
So this lecture we're going to dive into the first type of Instagram and which is a boosted post.
Now does it really feel necessarily like an ad but really it is and it's kind of unique to Instagram
because the only way you can actually do them is through the Instagram app.
Surprisingly you can actually do this to the web user interface you have to do it through their phone.
Either way Bustos are an interesting way of growing your following or to increase the effectiveness
of say an ad post that you've made.
Let's say you have a podcast coming out and you make one of those preview posts where you say who it
is you're going to talk about and when.
Well you could do that.
And because that's kind of it's a pretty subtle way of promoting something that could be pretty effective
as a out there and you might see me in the fall longs play around a little bit with boosted ads.
And I did them at the very beginning because I wanted to test out what types of content were going to
work with what type of group.
So once I got a decent idea of who my audience was overwhelmingly male typically 25 to 35 and for the
most part in the United States UK and Australia so English base and there's also a decent contingent
in India.
Then I started using Doucette post to kind of see how the reaction amongst people were to get an idea
of OK this 3D printed house is pretty popular this jacket with a bunch of extra features and not so
much but outside of testing there's other ways that you can use this effectively.
And I personally just like to think of it as a way if you have a really good piece of content to promote
it.
Now typically the best way.
I mean I go about using google if I do it is to first identify a piece of content that did really well.
So one way you can do this is by using icons Square which we set up earlier in the course.
But if you remember icons square for me specifically doesn't work that well because I had tried different
types of promotional techniques and so some of the posts are not organically going to be ranked the
best.
It's more so that I picked a couple that were doing OK and then I promoted them more so.
So keep that in mind when we look at my list.
But for you guys it should be fine.
Assuming you've had a consistent strategy that you've stuck to so if you go to analytics over here on
the left and then go to engagement you can use one of two different metrics to decide which pieces of
your content the best one is engagement and what is reach.
So the most engaging thing I have now kind of depends.
Now you remember this is one of the earliest ones.
It says most engaging media and because it was in my earliest ones my engagement rate is something insane
because I only had like five followers and it got a bunch of likes so that doesn't mean anything unfortunately.
So I like to look over here and look at most liked and most common to.
So it kind of depends what I'm going for if I think that people commenting are most likely going to
follow me that I might go for this one.
I think people who liked it the most are then therefore going to click over and follow me more and that
I might go with this one.
But either way this is where I would check out and see what the analytics system says is my best.
And then all I can do is look at reach and see if there is a similar pattern there.
You really kind of have to make a call so media with highest reach it's these right here now.
These just breach is just a function of whether or not Instagram thinks it's interesting to a lot of
people.
Remember this is also taking into account that they change their algorithm halfway through the course.
So I kind of take this with a grain of salt.
These look like these are all pretty engaging but it also looks like back here you know here are some
other options.
Try to get this one this little robot that seemed to piss everybody off the most is probably the one
I should go for him because it also shows up at my top reach.
OK so that would be a very simple criteria I could use for picking something to promote.
So what I would want to do is go fetch that post down.
So I just have to scroll and see if I can find it.
OK.
So it's right here.
And actually as it turns out I did promote this once upon a time.
And what we can see right here is that we can actually view the insights from that promotion.
I don't actually know why I did this but you can see I spent around $150 so that was just an experiment
to see how that work.
And as you can see it gives us some basic analytics up front as to how that went.
So it said you know 779 promotion clicks got 905 people will look at it this is probably over the course
of a couple of months even and then it says 130 bucks for 268 followers so you can kind of do the math
right there but that's like one point seven followers per dollar.
So that's generally speaking pretty bad.
So just kind of keep that in mind.
Remember we did Page shout outs.
We were getting anywhere from three to one to five to one.
But to demonstrate how to actually do one of these posts let's just take one that personally.
OK so here we go here's a carrousel post and this is using that wearable keyboard thing that is the
most liked untypically carrousel posts are pretty popular.
Just because there's a whole bunch of tech one person doesn't like that one post they can swipe to see
if they like the next you to like it actually they like the next.
Also works in a content strategy because people seeing this will see that hey my account covers lots
of things and not just this one it might actually might actually be confusing like am I actually promoting
this keyboard typing thing whatever.
OK.
So if I look at the insites typically a good way of telling whether or not something should be promoted
outside of using Arcano squares to look at that personage under discovery says weren't following you.
Now that can range anywhere from 1 percent to 80 percent.
And for me at least anything over 10 percent means that Instagram liked it ok and then Instagram pushed
it out to other people since the Instagram algorithm apocalypse just recently.
It's not very easy to get free views on Instagram.
They typically only show it to your own friends so if they have a decent percentage over 10 percent
that's generally a sign that hey this one performed well.
So that's usually something that I like to go off of.
So if I want to promote it and does it promote right here.
OK.
Now the next thing is what are your goals.
More profile visits more website traffic and more promotion views.
Now the first one is if you want to promote your account.
OK so you're just trying to get more people to it to increase your engagement or more likely more followers
than you would like.
That first one more website traffic would make the most sense if you're actually trying to sell something
especially if the post was for something that you were selling for innovation station.
Maybe we make an online store we sell a lot of these things that we cover that could be interesting
considering a lot of people keep asking for that over and over again.
So maybe then we would put the Web site you R-AL direct link to the actual thing that we're trying to
sell and that could be kind of interesting.
And the last thing is just more promotion views.
So this is kind of a mix between do you want them to go to your profile do you want them to go to your
business address this is something if you're a local store that's something you would use.
So let's say you're running a video but your grand opening you want people to visit you in person you
would select that one and then phone number perhaps if you're looking for leads.
Let's say you are a tattoo artist OK and you just made a video about a tattoo you gave and you want
people to call you for leads.
That's how you would do that to keep this simple we're just going to do more profile visits and I think
that since you know innovation we don't mean really to sell.
That's not particularly relevant to use these other ones.
So for the most part they all kind of work the same way.
When you get next which is going to take you to target audience.
Now there's three different ways you can do this one automatically and Sprint has a lot of data.
So it's up to you whether or not you trust them to figure out what group of people based on what they've
seen before are most likely to like or comment or follow you.
I typically trust Instagram on that one because they have all the data that we don't want is local.
So this is pretty important.
If you run a local business pretty easy you just pick your actual location.
So let's see my current location right there.
It's done right now middle of Denver.
And then you could pick a radius like this.
So if I was working in person or physically selling something I could do this and then target my gender's
and my age so I can go back.
The last thing is just manual so if you think you have a better grasp of who should follow you or look
for your promotions do this.
Also if you're say promoting something very specific let's say I'm selling a shoe and the shoe is very
let's say it appeals to a certain type of person then what I might want to do is go to a manual and
pick this type of person specifically because if I do the automatic it's going to look at how popular
my account is as a whole and to look at that audience as a whole whereas I know this post might be more
specific.
So for this one what we could do is just to show you how to set up your manual audiences.
We can do a manual audio sources say manual give it a name and we'll say this is our test.
Audience locations it has Colorado but I don't actually care about that.
So innovations Asians more focused on us and then let's say Canada.
And those are kind of big too just because of time zones.
It's not that we don't want to invite people from China news Bekka stay and France and all that.
It's just that I post during a certain time period so make sense to focus on this.
OK then I could go.
Interests interests are pretty loose.
You can type in whatever you think this post is going to appeal to.
So my post again was about cool technology so I said robots we could pick the robot robotics say robotics
it could say technology.
So you get see the people who have a bachelor in technology might be interested in something like this
if it's specific let's say military technology that could be interesting.
Those health technology that could be interesting.
A lot of times you health tech so you could say robotics hell technology and then I like to do things
like social entrepreneurship.
So I like that.
So basically people were interested in starting ventures or selling products that helped the world.
That tends to be a good group of people for me.
Now the general rule of thumb with interest is and as many as you can as long as you keep it relevant
there's no benefit to adding 10 if you can't justifiably think of 10.
The only caveat that Instagram is really going to drill down on those two days time is a problem is
if say like you only added 1 and it's a really specific interest which means that you might actually
have trouble displaying all your ads.
Again it's not that big of a deal because it didn't take longer to spend your money but just something
to keep in mind.
Now age and gender I just noticed that this is typically my age range right there.
It might actually scale a little bit older but maybe that's not really the range that I want to go for
and then for whatever reason male Instagram users are way more interested in my posts.
Ok so I have this set up now if I wanted to change something else it's always get me saved right there
so I can just select it whenever I want.
OK.
And the next thing you do is it.
Next thing you get your budget and duration and it's really up to you you can do whatever you want.
Keep in mind if you run an ad and it's not doing well you can cancel it very easily by just finding
the post and then will have a button that says see promotion and you can click Cancel promotion it's
really easy.
So let's just say we want to do on this one for five days and we could spend 50 bucks.
OK whatever.
So next they know what it is it's going to do is it'll set you up so you can preview promotion and you're
going to have to set up your credit card information.
And since we already set up Facebook before as a business account we probably already have our payment
information attached if you don't it'll prompt you to go do that and I think you can do that through
the app.
You can do it in the app and you have to set it up to Facebook.
You only do it one time.
So I can preview the promotion Let's see how this looks.
And as you can see right here at the top it says sponsored.
Right.
That's the biggest difference it's going to say sponsored and some of those big bold blue bar that says
you Instagram profile are the two kind of giveaways is a boosted post and since I already have a lot
of comments on this post those will get promoted as well so it's not going to look like a fresh post.
Ok so once I know that I'm good with it go back and then I just check over to make sure everything I
have is set up correctly the action button is automatic.
If I'm looking for a profile visit it's always going to say visit unscreened profile.
If I was doing leads it would say like call now or give the business address if there was a visit or
you are l and it would be like a learn more button it usually gives you the options to choose different
ones.
So then I it create promotion.
And typically this never works the first time I do it I have to click it several times so the video
is being processed Please try again later.
This is what I do.
I just keep pressing it until it goes.
And typically the carousel videos.
It's actually pretty iffy whether or not they'll even accept it.
Currently you kind of just have to keep hitting this because they're just bypassing you and eventually
it will go through.
OK.
So I just ran a promotion for a different post because oh my god it's takes forever.
If you do a carousel video post and I just want to get across what this is supposed to look like.
So this just pops out it says pray your things when you started your promotion and then all say is pending
approval.
View insites is not going to tell anything right now but it'll give me things like how long the promotion
has lasted.
They will say my spin when I spend is fifty dollars.
So very quickly what I can do is I can look at this and say oh if there's $10 spent I can look up here
and see follows and another baselines five.
So anything above that is what's been attributed to the promotion.
So if let's say come back and it's 15 follows and I spent $10 that means I'm sitting a dollar per follow
and if that's my goal that's pretty bad.
So I might actually cancel that and then just try to dip my toes in a different ad and try something
else.
That's the way you can be the most effective with your boosted post at least.
All right guys that's it for now.
Next lecture will dive into regular post as so you then.